Hi there! This is a rough transcript of episode 3. If you use the transcripts, please let us know via email or twitter. The more people who use it, the more time we can spend polishing the transcript files. Thanks!

Stuart Carlton 0:08
Welcome back to teach me about the Great Lakes podcast in which I get people who are smarter than I am to teach me about the Great Lakes. My name is Stuart Carlton I'm assistant director at Illinois Indiana secret and with me as always is communications coordinator old charters. Oh,

Hope 0:24
hey, Stuart. How are you today? I am doing fantastic and I'm super excited to hear from our interviewee today.

Stuart Carlton 0:32
I'm really excited to because what we have this week is some woman Her name is her name is Laureen, new and hice. And she decided to walk around Lake Michigan. And I don't mean walk around near Lake Michigan. I don't mean walk around in a circle in front of Lake Michigan. I don't mean walk around in Lake Michigan. I mean literally walk around Lake Michigan, and she did this on purpose and she has some really interesting things to say about the poetry of hiking around a lake and so I'm very excited for this interview. I too actually thought about hiking a long way when I was younger my good friend Paul admins who is not listening to this but if you are Hello Paul and I we decided that we were going to hike the Appalachian Trail while singing the song lengthwise by fish for the entire time accepting of course, sleeping and there were some details that maybe we hadn't worked out yet. We thought that would be really good. It's a it's a two line song It's a its own peculiar bit of genius, which is when you're there, I sleep lengthwise and when you're gone, I sleep diagonal in my bed, which is true. So we thought we'd sing that for however long it takes to thru hike the Appalachian Trail, and there were several problems with that. Number one being that that would be annoying. And number two being a part about through hiking the Appalachian Trail so we're kind of over to on that one.

Hope 1:59
Yeah. To kind of remind Me of It's a small world after all just playing over and over again at Disney World and

Stuart Carlton 2:05
yes, yes, it's like that but I am much less profitable than Disney World. Yeah, so what about you you have any sort of unusual Have you run a like a majorly long hike or maybe been like

Hope 2:18
I enjoy you know the hour to three hour hikes here in there when I was in Ecuador one time, we went down to like keela tilla which is actually in a volcanic crater so about 600 years ago, I think the volcano erupted, left a crater in the earth and then it became a lake at the bottom. And so we hiked all the way down which is very steep. And then I didn't think about it when we were going down but obviously you have to get back up. So I think I made it about halfway up and then I caught a mule and, you know rented a mule for for the last half because I

Stuart Carlton 2:53
really good my, my daughter when she was just about two years old, we were leaving Gainesville, Florida. I got my PhD And there's a state park there. What's it called Devil's mill hopper. And it has several hundred stairs down into like this, I don't know, gold or gully or whatever it is. And she was pretty good at walking at that point and walk down every single stair, and we got to the bottom, and she looked up, and she looked at me and I

Hope 3:22
looked at piggyback ride from there.

Stuart Carlton 3:26
And we walked up several hundred stairs, and he carrying her and that is the extent of my stamina is that and even then it was spurred on by lots of whining and complaining. So anyway, we're excited to get to the interview. But before we do a little bit of housekeeping, the things that I always forget. Number one, don't forget to like or subscribe, review the show. So if you're in the apple thing, click on the review thing and give us five stars or or four stars. If you're in another podcast thing, do the same and write us some reviews, subscribe. Because that's really important in helping us to grow the show, there's been a great response to our first couple of episodes, which I've definitely gotten because we're not recording this before we released the second episode. And, but there has been a really good response. And we want as many people as possible to learn as much as possible about the Great Lakes. So please make sure you take those steps. And if you have any feedback, go ahead and find us on Twitter at what does it teach Great Lakes. You have any questions? Any feedback? Maybe you have a question about the great lake that great lakes that you would like to have answered, we can find some expert answered because everybody who's anybody wants to appear on the show and everybody who's anybody wants have a question answered, and maybe that includes you. So reach out to us on social media that way. And with that, let's go ahead and bring on Lori new in house and hear what she has to say. Do And so our guest today is Lorene new and hice. And she is I don't even know how to explain what she is. I mean, she's an author. She's an adventurer, she's a speaker. But the things she writes about are somewhat unusual and fits in with our theme of unusual persistence. Laureen has walked around Lake Michigan. And if that's not enough, she's also walked 1000 miles around other great lakes and then 1000 miles around islands, is that right?

Loreen 5:39
The island adventure was hiking, biking and boating. So it was it was a little different from the first two which were just 1000 mile hikes.

Stuart Carlton 5:47
It's like a nice, maybe a little more relaxed version of a triathlon except for the thousand mile Park, right. So that's actually I let me plug the book. The most recent book is 1000 mile Great Lakes Island adventure and you can Find more about her books and her adventures at WWW dot Lake trek.com. trek spelled like an adventure or like Star Trek. Alright, Lori and I think the first question that people have and I'm sure you've gotten a lot is, it really is just a one word question. And that question is why?

Loreen 6:22
Yeah, I do get that one a lot. I reached a point in my life where I had a bit of a midlife crisis, and I needed to take on a very big challenge. Something so large, I wasn't even sure I could finish it. And I looked to my favorite place, which is always been like Michigan, and I decided to get to know it step by step and record it in my muscles and bones by walking all the way around it. So I got to know my favorite place intimately like that.

Stuart Carlton 6:48
And so how does one start to walk around like Michigan?

Loreen 6:54
Well, I had never done 1000 mile hike before. Let me just say that. So it sounded the A little insane to even talk about it. So I decided to break it up into 10 segments. And to spread it out over seven months that allowed me to just focus on the first five days and just getting through that chunk of it. And I also wanted to see the lake and all four seasons. So I began at the end of winter and I ended in the beginning of fall. So I saw the many moons of Lake Michigan.

Stuart Carlton 7:23
So the many moons of Lake Michigan. How would you describe those moves? Exactly. Is it angry at times? Is it calm?

Loreen 7:31
Yeah, it runs the whole gamut. There was one storm that blew in and it dropped five inches of snow England, and it turned the lake into just this raging monster. They were five foot tall, curling crashing waves, and the winds were still still sustained at about 40 miles an hour. And it was so loud that I had my son I told both my sons I get three days a year spring break, you're hiking with me. So my youngest Son Lucas was with me. And it was so loud between the wind and the waves that even if we were standing shoulder to shoulder, we couldn't hear each other talk, even if we were yelling, so we had to resort to hand signals, you know, like, stop, I need a drink of water, or he kept giving me the signal like, Mom, you're crazy. Why are we out

Hope 8:17
here?

Stuart Carlton 8:19
I think my kids would give me a certain hand signal if I send it. So you had your sons with you for three days each, right? And the rest of the time was it just random companions or

Loreen 8:31
about 80% was a solo hike. And that's how it was conceived when I first thought about doing it, but then people started emailing me like you're gonna walk by my house, you're walking through my town, I want to walk with you. So I did coordinate with complete strangers to walk with them for a few hours, just to hear their stories of the lake. And people like my sister and my cousin insisted on walking with me. So that was lovely that people wanted to be part of this adventure into And to partake in that a little bit. That was lovely.

Hope 9:03
That's awesome. Yeah, who doesn't want to be a part of a cool experience? Like, right? Yeah.

Stuart Carlton 9:08
And so how do people find you this was so this. This was a bit ago but not super long ago was this a social media thing was a Facebook or

Loreen 9:16
social media and I started getting a lot of media coverage just as I would walk around the lake reporters would come out and interview me and some would even walk with me a little bit. So people started hearing about my adventure and joy and wanted to join me. Yeah.

Stuart Carlton 9:29
And so and so you were doing social media tweeting your Walker Facebook in your walk? Was it did you have like GPS as to or how did you find your way around Lake Michigan or on these other tracks?

Hope 9:42
Couldn't you just follow the water,

Stuart Carlton 9:45
water and turn left?

Loreen 9:47
Lake Michigan was pretty easy, especially the west side of the Lower Peninsula of Michigan because it's almost 95% sandy beach, at least it was back then the lake level was much lower. So as long as the lake was on my left side I was good. But I did have a GPS with me to measure my miles each day. And also in case I had to navigate around things like a power plant or a water intake or a sewage treatment plant. And there even some, like limestone mines along some of the lake. So these were things that were very easy to see on satellite images. So I would make note of where they were and then you know, I'd have to safely navigate around them and then get back to the shoreline.

Hope 10:28
So did you take like a paper map with you to just in case you lost GPS signal or something, I don't know how

Loreen 10:34
GPS works a GPS, you wouldn't lose the signal unless they were really thick, low clouds and it bounced it around. Otherwise, it's like a satellite phone in that it always connects to satellite. So I didn't take well, occasionally I would take a paper map if there were a couple structures I wanted, you know, to know the roads around them in order to navigate around them, but most of the time I just relied on my GPS.

Stuart Carlton 10:57
So Michael, one is exciting. mile two is exciting mile three is is exciting miles seven or eight is kind of maybe exciting, but you're starting to get tired. But what about like four days into it or three days into it? Where this really starts to seem like a, you know, a bear, right? Where the enormity comes to where you're ever almost like overwhelmed by your task.

Loreen 11:21
At times, especially early on on the first hike, I was because it's very difficult to train for that sort of, you know, I'm on sand dunes one day, then I'm on a sidewalk, then I'm on rocks. So there was a bit of just overall fatigue and soreness for that first hike. Yeah, but as I got into the hike, you know, route 400 miles in. There was there was a very strange thing that happened. Once I was attuned to walking along the Lakeshore, I got the sense that the world was turning beneath me like it was almost effortless, and I could just really connect with the water and with nature and just with the flow of the hike and And that was really a gift from this this first adventure.

Unknown 12:04
It almost becomes meditative, meditative after a while. Definitely.

Hope 12:07
That's definitely what just came to my mind too. Yeah, that's awesome. Yeah.

Stuart Carlton 12:10
And so in that way, maybe it's a benefit that you didn't have other people with you because you can really feel the world. under your feet. Yes,

Loreen 12:18
yes. Yeah. Yeah. My cousin especially is very chatty. So when she was with me, I'm like, let's just listen for a minute.

Stuart Carlton 12:28
I'm reminded of, there's another author named Bill Bryson, who wrote a book on hiking the Appalachian Trail. I love him. Yeah. And a wonderful, wonderful book. But But after a while, the relationship between the two hikers got a little bit strained, I think. And since it's Bill Bryson it was committed to read about it being strained. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. So maybe, maybe there's something to the being alone, but still, I would think there's got to be some loneliness that kicks in now.

Loreen 12:55
You know, I was reading so much about the lakes. So while I was I was able to think about all that information and to connect it with what I was seeing. And I enjoyed having those long connected thoughts. We don't have that empty space in our lives as much. So you know, we have computers and phones ringing and we have to run here and there. So to have those unbroken chunks of time moving with the lake, and to connect all the information that I had read and I was seeing it was it was wonderful to be able to consolidate it that way.

Hope 13:34
What else did you take with you? Because like I have a hard enough time packing for trips where I get to take a bag of luggage.

Loreen 13:43
So how do you decide what to take and what are the essentials and then what kind of emergency things did you take? Well, when you're carrying everything on your back will be much more critical. What about what you're carrying? People always asked me did you pick up rocks that I was like, sometimes I had 40 pounds of it. So it had to be the perfect rock. But you know, I just really had the basics. In my backpack, I would always have rain gear, I would always have chocolate because I get a little grumpy without chocolate. If I if I was on a segment where I was going to do some camping that I would have all my camping gear, but I really kept it all to a bare minimum and for the most of the part around Lake Michigan. There are little there were little places to resupply, so I didn't have to carry 10 days of food or five days of food. You know, I could carry two days of food and resupply as I walk through a small town so that made it that made it a little easier.

Hope 14:38
Yeah, that's nice. And how many days did you say it took you to get all the way around?

Loreen 14:42
Lake Michigan was 64 days I averaged 16 miles a day on that hike.

Hope 14:48
What kind of shoes did you wear? One question. Before we talk to you I was like I just want to know

Loreen 14:54
what kind of shoes you're wearing. I always wear Keens. I love canes. They have a really good toebox so your toes and i, you don't have to break them in. They're generally soft enough that you can just just get out there after a day or so and do a very long hike. So, yeah.

Unknown 15:23
Did you find yourself interacting with strangers a lot on the hike? Or Or like do people ask you about this outside of the social media context?

Loreen 15:32
Sure. Yeah. I would greet people along the way and have conversations. One guy in Wisconsin as I was making my way south to Chicago, he looked at my backpack. He goes, What are you doing walk into Chicago? I said, Yes.

Stuart Carlton 15:46
That's the best answer to that question. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. The old Mad Magazine snappy answers the stupid questions, right.

Unknown 15:54
Yes.

Stuart Carlton 15:56
So here's a question. So you've walked around. And this is just like Michigan and and you've also done 2000 other miles of traveling that you've talked about, right? And so real chance to see the lakes through the seasons, a real chance to see the lakes, you know, over time and through geography. What if What What does that teach you on that sort of micro small scale? That might not be obvious when you like fly over the lake. So when you ride by in a car or something like that,

Loreen 16:26
I think the biggest thing I learned and I learned this on the first hike just around Lake Michigan, but it holds true for all look at lakes is that geology determines access. So like the west side of Michigan's Lower Peninsula, almost all sandy beach. So people in Michigan connect with the beaches of Lake Michigan, they connect to that access, they throw themselves in the lake. But if you go up to Wisconsin, there's very little access like that there are large Earth and hills that are constantly selling sloughing off into the lake. So there's a lot of debris in the lake. There's very little sandy beach along Wisconsin. So people in Wisconsin even though they're living on the set, the shores of the same great lake have a very different relationship to it. They go inland for recreation, and they don't really think about Lake Michigan. And that was shocking to me because Lake Michigan is such a like a daily part, especially if people who live along the Lakeshore it's there, it's it's, it's changed, it changes the you can see the weather coming, picks up all this moisture, and you know, you'll get a lot of snow on the western side of Michigan whereas you know, Wisconsin will be colder but they won't get the snow at all comes over to Michigan. So that access determines how people think about and connect to the lakes. Lake Erie has a lot of Marsh along the edges again, there's very little sandy beach so it's a boaters like there are more fish in Lake Erie than in the other leg. So boaters have a very different connection to that body of water than people who are swimming and sailing and connecting with it in a different way.

Stuart Carlton 18:11
That's fascinating before I came here I was a Texas and we've always talked about how Texas is a coastal state but the people don't think of it as a state with a coast. And part of that is because of the sheer size of Texas you can drive a day in any direction and not get to the end of it. Much less hike, you could probably hike for I don't even want to know across Texas and then when you get to the coast and much of the area, it's nice but it's very very petrochemical show. Right and and but compare that to just across the golf when you get into the panhandle of Florida or something like that. And it's like these, these states have a really strong coastal identity and these are coastal states. And and so I think what you're saying there geology determines access, and in some ways geology determines Identity when it comes to a lake identity, that's Yes, a fascinating way of thinking about it. And so in your mind, you see this as a wonderful place to recreate and you see it as some of the lakes or Fisher's lakes, right? What what makes it the Great Lakes unique? What have you learned beyond that, that makes some kind of unique or valuable resource that in your mind makes it worth conserving or worth fighting for?

Loreen 19:26
You know, these lakes are so large, and people who have never seen them really don't have a sense of how large they are, but technically, they're classified as inland seas. They contain 84% of the fresh surface water in all of North America. So if you gathered up all the rivers and streams and lakes, outside the Great Lakes, you'd only have 16% so it just to conceptualize the vastness of these lakes and how freshwater they contain is very important when you consider that 40 million people get their drinking water from the lakes. And when you consider the amount of, of economic prosperity that's here because of people coming to enjoy these lakes that gives you some sense and some building blocks of why we need to cherish and protect these lakes. And one thing about Lake Michigan as I hiked around it, I realized that even though it took me 64 days to walk around it, it's vast, but it's fragile. We've messed up Lake Michigan, we've thrown the balance out many times invasive species pollution, the lamprey taking out the fish and then we threw salmon in there to kind of bring balance back and to eat up all the lives. We're talking about a lake that took me two months to walk around and yet we can mess it up. So I do think we need to be guardians and protectors of these legs at the end to realize the Fast natural resource that we have here.

Stuart Carlton 21:03
Yeah, that's interesting. Earth time. geologic time is slow. Right. And human time is fast. Yeah. And yeah, the leverage we have the ability to make environmental change so quickly, I think it's hard to conceive of. And I think some people can't conceive of that, which ties into some of the other issues related to climate change denial and and what have you, but, but, but I mean, you know, we're billions of years in the making here. And even though the Great Lakes themselves, I just learned this last episode, which everybody else did, I assume, at. But, you know, the Great Lakes themselves, maybe only about a couple thousand years old, or 10,000 years old. Excuse me. Yeah. But no, my computer blinked at me and I got distracted. And so the great like, let's try that again. And so the Great Lakes themselves may only be 10,000 years old, but that's still you know, as old as agriculture, right? And you look at the the speed of the change in the last century, or two or three and It's it's mind boggling.

Hope 22:02
Yes. What do you do in Lake Michigan besides take crazy amounts of time to hike around? Do you oh do you swim? Do you paddleboard?

Loreen 22:14
I do kayak. I do swim, but hiking and rock collecting and just just hiking. I just love walking on the shoreline.

Hope 22:23
Yeah. Did you do anything to prep for this hike? Like, did you go on super long hikes, you know kind of how you train for a marathon if you're going to run a marathon for the very thing to prep.

Loreen 22:33
For the very first hike? I did. I did work out. I'm not really I don't really like going to the gym, but I did do a bit of that. And I did run a little bit. But as I mentioned earlier, it's difficult to train for just the changing terrain. That so that was a little rough on my body until I you know, like I said got 400 miles into it then it was pretty good.

Stuart Carlton 22:55
Yeah, the first 400 miles is always the hardest. That's what I always right 41 is a sweet sweet mile.

Unknown 23:02
Yes.

Stuart Carlton 23:04
So if I want to I'm not going to hike 1000 miles I'll be honest I'm not gonna hike 22 miles I'm not gonna hike four to one but but if I wanted to like wear some really beautiful areas have you walked around like Michigan that you can recommend if people are interested in in seeing just some stunning hikes are there one or two that stick out?

Loreen 23:22
Yeah, definitely I actually put out an E book on Amazon called Best to Lake Michigan hikes because people kept asking me where do I go and and also to get to the lake shore safely and then to know where you're going to get off the lake shore safely. And actually, if you look at that, the 10 hikes there. Some of them may not be accessible now because Lake Michigan's level is so high. So you really need to assess the conditions when you get to the Lakeshore and how safe it is. But one area that has about 100 miles of hiking trails, many of them very close or on the Lakeshore is Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore just west Traverse City and two of my favorite hikes up here because I, I live in this region, or I live in Traverse City. Two of my favorite hikes up here are the Empire bluff trail and pyramid point. And we got some

Hope 24:17
there. You guys could hear it or not. And

Stuart Carlton 24:36
what we'll also do is we'll put a link to your book in our show notes which people can find at teach Great Lakes dot transistor dot f m slash three because this is episode number three, and we'll put a link to your books there. And those are actually pretty close for people who are listening in the Chicago area for people who are listening near us and West Lafayette. That's a relatively easy drive to get to those heights. So Maybe I'll get the kids in the car and we'll do that over the break. Oh, nevermind. I'm not supposed to speak like we're recording this in December. I had a lot of fun doing that over the break with my kids.

Loreen 25:14
Like time drive,

Stuart Carlton 25:15
right? It's like I said it's totally evergreen recording. All

Hope 25:20
right. Oh, maybe we should just take the entire Illinois Indiana secret stuff.

Stuart Carlton 25:24
Yeah, maybe we should have Chelsea hostess. Yeah. So what's next for you? You've done 3000 mile journeys across the Great Lakes. So is the move then for another thousand mile journeys or journey or have you kind of exhausted that are looking for a different adventure?

Loreen 25:41
Well, on my island adventure exploring the islands of the Great Lakes, I got up to IO royal, and I volunteered for the wolf moose study. They need volunteers to hike the island and gather moose bones, which sounds odd but it's the most fun ever. Like what kind of Muslims are like bones are. Well, you sometimes you find the whole skeleton sometimes you just find one bone. You're like where'd the rest of them go?

Stuart Carlton 26:06
How can you carry it? Are you supposed to, but

Loreen 26:10
we have, we have to bring back the skulls and then a metatarsal, which is a rear leg bone. For the scientist,

Unknown 26:17
how big is this goal?

Hope 26:20
like imagine that I have no idea how big a moose is, right? I don't.

Loreen 26:26
Have you seen like out west they have the cow skulls? Yeah, it's about as big as a cow skull but sometimes they have the antlers attached and the antlers can weigh 20 pounds. Oh my goodness.

Stuart Carlton 26:37
You're hooking a moose head across. Yeah, Royal for science.

Loreen 26:42
Yes. And it's the most fun. It's so much fun that I did it one time for the book and I've returned another four times and last or just this year. Well, if we don't want to deal with time, but we're going to eat I even lead a team of hikers this this past excursion. So that's something I plan to do, as long as I can do it because it is so much fun. Oh my god, but I do feel the pull of a long hike another thousand mile plus hike. The Appalachian Trail has always been there and kind of pulling at me. So I may do that in the future. I can

Stuart Carlton 27:18
imagine it does get into your bones after a while or into your blood, this idea of these I mean, kind of extreme challenges. You know, maybe not extreme in terms of really hard terrain, although maybe, but in terms of just the persistence, but getting into that meditative state. I can imagine that that would be kind of addictive in a way

Loreen 27:37
it is. And it's also very, there's something about casting off a lot of cares and like responsibilities to you're just out in the in the wild. Just you and whatever you can carry on your back and you realize how little you need to actually survive and thrive. So it's it's kind of a a reset button for me it it resets my priorities and resets my mind and a lot of very good ways.

Stuart Carlton 28:06
Yeah, I think it makes sense. There's something about your right modern life is very busy, right? And sometimes good busy, sometimes busy just for the sake of business. Right? And so there is sort of like strapping a moose head to your back and walking across an island.

Loreen 28:22
It's so much fun.

Hope 28:25
So we're able to get you away from more traditional job during these two months, or did you have the time off to be able to do it? Actually, at that time, I didn't have a full time job.

Loreen 28:39
And I just did that in segments and kind of fit it into my life where it were wherever it would fit. But whereas I can also be back with my family as much as possible, so that's how I did the first one. Prior to that, I worked in cancer research full time, but at the time I did the first time I wasn't working full time.

Hope 28:59
He's gonna say that's Sounds nice for keeping our job Stewart just take a month off and go hiking and yeah, you know, meditate the entire time.

Stuart Carlton 29:09
Yeah, just just live tweeted hope and will counter this work. Great. Well, Lori new and new and nice. I, I admire so much what you've done because I think that it's Well, I mean, it's, I'll be honest, it's weird to dress up and hike around a lake. But but it's really great to take, you know, take the time and say I'm going to do this right, I'm going to challenge myself. I'm going to hit the pause button on the business of life. And I'm going to learn about me and learn about this resource. I just am in awe of you doing it. And we really appreciate you being on teach me about the Great Lakes. Is there a place where people can go to find more information about you or about your work or to follow you on social media or something like that?

Loreen 29:57
Sure, they can find all of that at Lake trek.com as you mentioned before, like trek as in Star Trek, which is a very good way of conveying that they can find out about my books, my audio books, my speaking engagements upcoming hopefully some of them by hopefully some of those speaking engagements will be near the the people and they can actually come out and hear me speak about the Great Lakes.

Stuart Carlton 30:23
Well, Marina, thank you very much for appearing on the show. And we look forward to following you on your next adventure.

Loreen 30:29
My pleasure. Thank you, Stuart. Thank you hope. Thanks very much.

Stuart Carlton 30:48
What a fascinating woman and what a fascinating experience, I think, to do all of these sort of crazy extreme challenges even split out over multiple days. I mean, the persistence there I have not seen that persistence outside of my kids asking if they can carry our plate out to the.

Hope 31:09
Yeah, that was amazing to hear about.

Stuart Carlton 31:11
So, hope what did you learn about the Great Lakes today?

Hope 31:15
Today I learned about the great lakes that if you were to walk around like Michigan, it would take about two months. Is that correct?

Unknown 31:22
Yeah. 64 days, I think she said,

Hope 31:25
Yeah, exactly. And I already own a pair of jeans. So I learned that I made the right choice when hiking boots shopping. Finding the right footwear is the first step to walking around the Great Lakes.

Stuart Carlton 31:38
What did you learn? I learned two things. One, that you can hike around Iowa with a moose head for science. And I learned to that there's there's kind of an attraction, maybe even a value to approaching the lakes on this micro scale, and to the calm meditative break from the business in which you reconnect to this fascinating resource, and I learned that it Although I will never ever, ever, ever walk 1000 miles around the Great Lakes or across the Great Lakes I really wish I were the type of person who did alright hope well this is it for another episode of teach me about the Great Lakes episode number three, we encourage you to visit our website at teach Great Lakes transistor.fm we encourage you to like and to subscribe, and to review and do all of those fun things and if you have any questions or comments, go ahead and hit us up on Twitter at teach Great Lakes. Hope where can people follow you on Twitter?

Hope 32:35
You can follow Illinois Indiana c grant I oh I NC grant on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. And if you really want to follow me personally you can find me at hope Kira h OPKY era thanks so much hope Thanks to our guests Lori new in house and we will talk to you next month. Bye guys.

Stuart Carlton 33:00
Chaka Chaka, you know we put in the beatboxing

Hope 33:04
just add in the music from earlier

Transcribed by https://otter.ai